Getting started guides for Kyma (#9296)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/getting-started/05-add-redis-service.md

---
title: Add the Redis service
type: Getting Started
---

Provision the external [Redis](https://redis.io/) service that will replace your microservice in-memory storage. To do so, you will use a sample addon configuration linking to an example in the GitHub repository.

## Reference

> This guide demonstrates how [Service Catalog](/components/service-catalog/) works in Kyma. It enables easy access to services ([ServiceClass CRs](https://svc-cat.io/docs/resources/#service-classes)) managed by [Service Brokers](/components/service-catalog/#overview-service-brokers) registered in Kyma. You can consume these services by creating their instances and binding them to your microservices and Functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide demonstrates how [Service Catalog](/components/service-catalog/) works in Kyma. It enables easy access to services ([ServiceClass custom resources](https://svc-cat.io/docs/resources/#service-classes)) managed by [Service Brokers](/components/service-catalog/#overview-service-brokers) registered in Kyma. You can consume these services by creating their instances and binding them to your microservices and Functions.
```
I didn't unfold this acronym here as there are already parentheses in this place. I added a comment to line 22 instead.
If you'd rather reword it to have it here, feel free to do so.

## Steps

Follows these steps:

<div tabs name="steps" group="create-redis-service">
  <details>
  <summary label="kubectl">
  kubectl
  </summary>

> 1. Provision an [AddonsConfiguration CR](/components/helm-broker/#custom-resource-addons-configuration) with the Redis service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Provision an [AddonsConfiguration custom resource (CR)](/components/helm-broker/#custom-resource-addons-configuration) with the Redis service:
```

   ```yaml
   cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f  -
   apiVersion: addons.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
   kind: AddonsConfiguration
   metadata:
     name: redis-addon
     namespace: orders-service
   spec:
     repositories:
       - url: https://github.com/kyma-project/addons/releases/download/0.12.0/index-testing.yaml
   EOF
   ```

> 2. Check that the AddonsConfiguration CR was created. Its phase should state `Ready`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Check that the AddonsConfiguration CR was created. This is indicated by the status phase `Ready`:
```
As per [guidelines](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/master/guidelines/content-guidelines/08-style-and-terminology.md#terminology), we're not supposed to use `should`. What if it doesn't?

Another way to reword it would be: ```Check that the AddonsConfiguration CR was created. It's created when the status phase states `Ready`.```, but I like the original suggestion more, plus it's consistent with the suggestion I made to the next doc in line 35.

Author: I applied the 1st suggestion, just changes the order into:
```This is indicated by the `Ready` status phase```

  ```bash
  kubectl get addonsconfigurations redis-addon -n orders-service -o=jsonpath="{.status.phase}"
  ```

  </details>
  <details>
  <summary label="console-ui">
  Console UI
  </summary>

1. Navigate to the `orders-service` Namespace overview by selecting it from the drop-down list in the top navigation panel.

> 2. Go to **Configuration** > **Addons** in the left navigation panel, and select **Add New Configuration**.

Reviewer: See [this thread](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/9296/files#r478377224). 
Whichever you decide, please remember to apply it here as well.
